# Welcome to Shakespeare Slander #

This project generates "Shakespearean" insults to either the terminal or via the included iOS app. Many years ago, I
stumbled across the original implementation (I think); it was written in C. I took that code and wrote a screen saver
for my X Window System environment on SunOS/Solaris, using _Xlib_. The documentation for the original work gave credit
to a performer named "Lord Buckley"[^1], who had an act he called "Willie The Shake". The code author had apparently
seen this fellow a number of times; thus the alias for this project.

I found myself needing a distraction after a particularly challenging project at work. Having discovered a newer
implementation of the code on _GitHub_ - Kurt Blair's "Shakespearean Insult Generator" - I forked his repository;
re-wrote the generator in Python; and decided to include an iOS app that makes use of generated insults in an
entertaining manner. The app is written in _React Native_ and _Expo_, and has been released to the AppStore.

## Overview ##

The insult generator is data-driven and written in Python 3.x. There's a small model file included in the _data_
directory, containing 50 lines of three tokens each; this file may be used to create a large number of insult
phrases. The generator may be used to insult you from a terminal, or save a configurable number of insults to a
file. The latter approach is used to power the app.

Displaying an insult is simple; just run `bin/generate` from the project directory with no arguments. You'll receive a
single offensive phrase; for example: _Thou ruttish fen-sucked apple-john!_ If you need some functional information
from this script, run `bin/generate -h`.

## Usage ##

The generator offers a few command-line arguments:

| Argument | Description |
| :-: |:-: |
| _-c COUNT_ | Generate COUNT number of insults, writing them to either standard output or a file. |
| _-g PATH_ | Write some number of insults to PATH, saving them for later use. Whatever that might be. |
| _-f PATH_ | Use PATH as the insult generator's model file, rather than the default file provided. |
| _-o FORMAT_ | Output insults in FORMAT. The default is _text_ without the _-g_ flag; _json_ otherwise. |

As mentioned above, in the project's _bin_ directory there is a _Bash_ script that serves as a simple wrapper around the
Python-based generator to save a small amount of typing. If you prefer, you may use your own Python interpreter
directly: `python3 src/generator.py`. Note that Python 3 is required; the generator will **not** run on any 2.x version.

## The Model File ##

The generator uses a "model file" to drive insult assembly. Each insult is created by putting three words, or fragments,
in between the tokens "Thou " and "!". Each of the fragments may be thought of as a column; fragments are picked at
random, one from each column of words that are supplied in the data file, using a separate random number for each. The
algorithm is actually quite simple.

Using the included model file, there are 50 lines of three tokens each, allowing for 573,800 combinations: $$C(n,r) = \frac{n!}{r!(n-r)!}$$

You may use your own model file if you wish. If you create your own, it **must** follow a strict format: _three tokens
per line; each token separated by a single tab character_. The generator makes an attempt to validate a model file, and
fail cleanly if it gets angry.

## Current Work ##

The offical release of the project, including the app, is _1.9.0_. The app itself (_Shakespeare Slander_, alias
_WillieShake_) is available on the AppStore. _Shakespeare Slander_ is supplied with a JSON file containing insults
generated by _generate.py_; it presents those insults as a list (along with a few pretty buttons and such). You may
select one of the insults, and use your phone's default messaging app to insult anyone you wish.

### Annoying Codewords ###

As of relese _1.8.0_, _Shakespeare Slander_ has a new drawer page that will retrieve hundreds of "code words"
intended to annoy our Three Letter Agencies if they're snooping illegally (they always are). The app talks with a
Python Django server I wrote that runs somewhere in the ether, and populates the new drawer page with nifty code words
sure to attract attention. The Django server currently exposes just a handful of endpoints; more might be added if
necessary.

I plan to add the ability to generate new sets of these codewords from the app itself. Coming soon.

### General React Native Thoughts ###

For the most part, React Native is awesome. However, certain major components are frustrating to use and
unreliable. First thing that comes to mind is React Navigation. In a word, it's awful. When it works, great. But in my
exprerience, 60% of the time it's unpredicatable and a massive time sink. For example, no matter what I tried in this
project, the hook _useRoute()_ would always work, and yet the hook _useNavigation()_ always returned _{ }_. Even
applying the basic examples. I'm not the only engineer in the community with complaints regarding navigation, so I've
decided to stay far away from it.

#### Navigation Update ####

I changed my mind, and decided to give the Navigation Drawer components a try. It works now, but a lot of effort and
reading when into the implementation. This stuff remains poorly documented, requiring much trial and error. But in the
end, it looks nice.

## License ##

This software is made available under the _MIT License_. See _LICENSE.md_ for details.

## Attributions ##

The insult generator itself is based on the work of Kurt Blair's [Shakespearean Insult Generator](https://github.com/Kurt-Blair/Shakespearean-Insult-Generator).

Thank you to the following individuals for contributing excellent ideas for this project:

- My wife Jennifer.
- My son Adam.
- My sister Amy.

## Latest News ##

- _05/06/2024_: Version 1.9.0 is on the AppStore.
  - Use the cool ScalableText component for portable text scaling on different devices.

- _05/05/2024_: Version 1.8.4 is on the AppStore.
  - Added minimum font scaling.

- _05/04/2024_: Version 1.8.3 is on the AppStore.
  - Fixed font scaling across device sizes.
  - Flying Fickle Finger of Fate.

- _05/03/2024_: Version 1.8.2 is on the AppStore.
  - Added cool header to codewords drawer.

- _05/03/2024_: Version 1.8.1 is on the AppStore.
  - Added better fetch() error handling.

- _05/02/2024_: Version 1.8.0 is on the AppStore.
  - Added more codeword annoyance colors.
  - Name change to _Shakespeare Slander_.

- _05/01/2024_: Version 1.7.0 is on the AppStore.
  - Added codeword annoyance page.

- _01/14/2024_: Version 1.6.7 is on the AppStore.
  - Fixed season calculation algorithm.

- _09/26/2023_: Version 1.6.5 is on the AppStore.
  - Removed unnecessary console logging code.

- _09/25/2023_: Version 1.6.4 is available on the AppStore.
  - More accurate seasonal-change algorithm.
  - Small stylistic changes.

- _09/04/2023_: Version 1.6.2 is available on the AppStore.
  - New seasonal "easter egg" icons!
  
- _09/02/2023_: Version 1.5.3 is available on the AppStore.
  - Very nice header on the main and favorites insult pages.
  - New drawer navigation.
  - Much faster list performance.

- _09/01/2023_: Version 1.5.1 is on TestFlight now.
  - Switched to _FlashList_ component for better list rendering and performance.
  - Nicer color scheme for drawer menu.

- _08/31/2023_: Version 1.5.0 is on TestFlight for exercising.
  - New Navigation Drawer offering the menu options that used to be in the AppBar.
  - Stylistic improvements.

- _08/17/2023_: Version 1.4.1 is out. A major release to the AppStore:
  - Context-sensitive buttons.
  - Hidden "Easter eggs".
  - Animation improvements.
  - Usability improvements.

- _08/11/2023_: Version 1.2.3 is out. Another minor feature release:
  - Added a floating icon to the insult list that, when pressed, will return to the list top and disappear.

- _08/03/2023_: Version 1.2.2 is now available; a minor feature release:
  - The clipboard is now supported on the insult lists. Just pressing an insult makes it available for pasting wherever that
    behavior is supported on your device.

- _08/01/2023_: Version 1.2.1 is being released to the AppStore:
  - Added nice-looking image background to Favorites modal.
  - Added master exception handler for app-level fatal errors. The handler provides users with an explanation at least;
    allowing them to restart the app.

- _07/31/2023_: Version 1.2.0 has been released. There is a secret level here that must be found!

- _07/25/2023_: Version 1.1.4 of the app has been approved for release on the AppStore!

- _07/24/2023_: Version 1.1.3 of the _WillieShake_ app is available:
  - First official submission to the AppStore review process!
  - Gesture handling was added to the WebView component.
  - Documentation improvements.
  
- _07/21/2023_: Version 1.0.0 of the app is now available on _TestApp_, and is fully functional:
  - There's a new button that opens a WebView Modal, taking you to the _Wikipedia_ page on Lord Buckley.
  - Stability and style improvements.

- _07/17/2023_: Version 0.7.2 of the app is available on _TestApp_. Another minor release that offers just a few
  enhancements:
  - An activity indicator is shown during app loading, if your internet connection is slow.
  - There's now a config file that offers some flexible properties for the app. Later I might add a capability to
    make changes to this file.

- _07/14/2023_: Version 0.7.1 of the app is available on _TestApp_. This is a small release, and really just offers a
  few visible improvements:
  - Buttons now offer feedback animation, using the React _Pressable_ API.
  - One or two font improvements.

- _07/13/2023_: Version 0.7.0 of the app has been released onto _TestApp.io_. This release offers several enhancements:
  - Much nicer splash screen.
  - Very nice main page background image.
  - Nicer color scheme overall.
  - An AppBar button that opens your default browser and takes you directly to the GitHub project page.
  - More efficient rendering.
  - Better documentation.

## Internal Testers ##

The current app release may be found [here](https://portal.testapp.io/apps/install/eLDOGzZngbjgg).

## References ##

- [Lord Buckley's](http://www.lordbuckley.com/the-word-new/transcriptions/willie-the-shake.html) "Willie The Shake".
- [Git Flow](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/): A successful Git branching model.
- [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/): A fabulous iOS and Android portable development language.
- [TestApp.io](https://testapp.io/): A generous and reliable place to host and share apps for testing.
- [Expo.dev](https://expo.dev/): Another generous developer site that hosts app builds for both iOS and Android.

## Author ##

[David E. Young](mailto://youngde811@pobox.com)

[^1]: [Lord Buckley](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lord_Buckley) was a weird dude, as were all of those fellows into the
    Beat scene.
